Check-in user guide for w4a16 LLM deployment (#224)
InternLM/lmdeploy: docs/en/w4a16.md

# W4A16 LLM Model Deployment

LMDeploy supports LLM model inference of 4-bit weight, with the minimum requirement for NVIDIA graphics cards being sm80.

Before proceeding with the inference, please ensure that lmdeploy(>=v0.0.4) is installed.

```shell
pip install lmdeploy
```

## 4-bit LLM model Inference

You can download the pre-quantized 4-bit weight models from LMDeploy's [model zoo](https://huggingface.co/lmdeploy) and conduct inference using the following command.

Alternatively, you can quantize 16-bit weights to 4-bit weights following the ["4-bit Weight Quantization"](#4-bit-weight-quantization) section, and then perform inference as per the below instructions.

> Take the 4-bit Llama-2-7B model from the model zoo as an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take the 4-bit Llama-2-chat-7B model from the model zoo as an example:
```

```shell
git-lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/lmdeploy/llama2-chat-7b-w4
```

As demonstrated in the command below, first convert the model's layout using `turbomind.deploy`, and then you can interact with the AI assistant in the terminal

```shell

## Convert the model's layout and store it in the default path, ./workspace.
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.turbomind.deploy \
    --model-name llama2 \
    --model-path ./llama2-chat-7b-w4 \
    --model-format awq \
    --group-size 128

## inference
python3 -m lmdeploy.turbomind.chat ./workspace
```

## Serve with gradio

If you wish to interact with the model via web ui, please initiate the gradio server as indicated below:

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.serve.turbomind ./workspace --server_name {ip_addr} ----server_port {port}
```

Subsequently, you can open the website `http://{ip_addr}:{port}` in your browser and interact with the model

> ## Inference Performance

Reviewer: It's better to show min cpu&gpu memory

Author: memory cost is added

| model       | llm-awq | mlc-llm | turbomind |
| ----------- | ------- | ------- | --------- |
| Llama 2 7B  | 112.9   | 159.4   | 206.4     |
| Llama 2 13B | N/A     | 90.7    | 115.8     |

```shell
python benchmark/profile_generation.py \
  ./workspace \
  --concurrency 1 --input_seqlen 1 --output_seqlen 512
```

## 4-bit Weight Quantization

It includes two steps:

- generate quantization parameter
- quantize model according to the parameter

### Step 1: Generate Quantization Parameter

```shell
python3 -m lmdeploy.lite.apis.calibrate \
  --model $HF_MODEL \
  --calib_dataset 'c4' \             # Calibration dataset, supports c4, ptb, wikitext2, pileval
  --calib_samples 128 \              # Number of samples in the calibration set, if memory is insufficient, you can appropriately reduce this
  --calib_seqlen 2048 \              # Length of a single piece of text, if memory is insufficient, you can appropriately reduce this
  --work_dir $WORK_DIR \             # Folder storing Pytorch format quantization statistics parameters and post-quantization weight
```

### Step2: Quantize Weights

LMDeploy employs AWQ algorithm for model weight quantization.

```shell

> python3 -m lmdeploy.lite.apis.auto_awq \
>   --w_bits 4 \                       # Bit number for weight quantization
>   --w_sym False \                    # Whether to use symmetric quantization for weights
>   --w_group_size 128 \               # Group size for weight quantization statistics
>   --work_dir $WORK_DIR \             # Directory saving quantization parameters from Step 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python3 -m lmdeploy.lite.apis.auto_awq \
  --model $HF_MODEL \
  --w_bits 4 \                       # Bit number for weight quantization
  --w_group_size 128 \               # Group size for weight quantization statistics
  --work_dir $WORK_DIR \             # Directory saving quantization parameters from Step 1
```
